# Franklin Backend

This is a prototype for demonstrating how a backend can support multiple protocols on accepting and processing client
and user requests. As of now, the two protocols supported are HTTP in the form of REST and WebSockets to handle the
broadcasting to all connected clients to recieve real-time updates on application state changes.

The design philosophy is that when a request comes in though HTTP, a normal operation will handle the state change on
the data layer. Then, if the operation is successful, a broadcast message will send to all clients connected to the
application to re-fetch the specific resource via HTTP.

As of now, the WebSocket only initiates the connection and keeps it alive in a thread. It is not set up to recieve data
in any meaningful way on that protocol.

## Setup

### Dependencies

- [Python 3.11](https://www.python.org/) - [Install](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- [Pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/{"originTabId":1,"originWindowId":1}stable/) - [Install](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installation/)

### Local Development

To keep dependencies required for projects separate without changing global settings and packages we create
isolated virtual environments for these projects.

All packages necessary for Franklin development are installed into the `./backend/franklin_env/` virtual
environment in the setup.sh script.

To create this isolation we use the python virtual environment [venv](https://docs.python.org/3.11/library/venv.html).
Refer to the python virtual environment for documentation.

To use in your shell, activate the virtual environment by running the following commands:

```bash
cd backend

python3 -m venv franklin_env

source franklin_env/bin/activate

pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

## Linting

This project uses `pylint` as a linting tool.

Running the linter:

```bash
# From ./backend/

pylint src tests
```

## Formatting

The Franklin uses `yapf` to format the python codebase.
Configuration is maintained in `.style.yapf` within the `./backend` directory.

To recursively format all Python files in place, run the following

```bash
# From ./backend/

yapf -ir .
```

## Testing

The backend service uses `pytest` as a testing framework for the Python code. The tests are broken out into unit,
integration, and system tests.

Pytest notes:

- The `-s` flag for the pytest routes the standard out to the console. It allows the `print()` statement to log
output of variables for development purposes.

From the root `./backend` directory of the project:

Unit Tests:

```bash
pytest -s tests/unit
```

Integration Tests:

```bash
pytest -s tests/integration
```

### Code Coverage

Code coverage is generated by coverage.py using the pytest-cov package.  It was the easiest way to
setup code coverage for unit testing to use pytest-cov and its default configuration, then to
configure coverage.py directly.

The unit tests rely on the .coveragerc file to omit the 'main.py' where the application routes are stored.
'main.py' is tested by integration tests and not unit tests.

To view an HTML report of coverage, change the option of `--cov-report=term` to `--cov-report=html`.
Read <https://pytest-cov.readthedocs.io/en/latest/config.html> to learn more about pytest code coverage
tool configuration.

```bash
pytest --cov=src --cov-fail-under=80 --cov-branch --cov-report=term tests/unit/

pytest --cov=src --cov-fail-under=80 --cov-branch --cov-report=html tests/unit/
```
